Upload the Configuration to the Real Router via Console Cable

Once you have the configuration saved in a text file, you can upload it to the real router through a console cable. Here's how:
Step 1: Connect the Real Router to Your PC Using a Console Cable

    Connect one end of the console cable (usually a blue RJ-45 to DB9 or USB to RJ-45) to the console port of the real router.
    Connect the other end of the console cable to your PC's serial port (or use a USB-to-serial adapter if needed).

Step 2: Install Console Software (if not already installed)

    Use terminal emulation software such as PuTTY, Tera Term, or HyperTerminal.
    Ensure that your terminal software is set up to connect via the correct COM port (you can find the COM port in your PC's Device Manager if it's a USB-to-serial adapter).

Step 3: Configure the Terminal Software

    Open your terminal software (e.g., PuTTY).
    Set the connection type to Serial.
    Select the correct COM port (e.g., COM1, COM2, etc.).
    Set the Serial line parameters (standard Cisco routers use the following settings):
        Speed (baud rate): 9600
        Data bits: 8
        Parity: None
        Stop bits: 1
        Flow control: None

Step 4: Access the Router Console

    Once the connection is established, press Enter to get the router's command prompt.

Step 5: Enter Privileged EXEC Mode

    You may need to enter enable mode:

    enable

Step 6: Copy the Configuration File to the Router

You have two methods to upload the configuration to the router:
Method 1: Copy Configuration File from TFTP Server (Recommended)

    Set up a TFTP server on your computer. There are free TFTP servers available, such as Tftpd32 or PumpKIN.
    Place the saved configuration file (router-config.txt) in the TFTP server's directory.
    On the router's CLI, run the following command to copy the configuration from the TFTP server to the router's startup configuration:

    copy tftp://<TFTP_Server_IP>/router-config.txt startup-config

    Replace <TFTP_Server_IP> with the IP address of the TFTP server.

Method 2: Use Terminal to Paste the Configuration (Direct Paste)

    If you don't want to use a TFTP server, you can paste the configuration manually into the router using the terminal:
        In the router’s CLI, enter configuration mode:

        configure terminal

        Then, manually paste the configuration you copied from the .txt file in Packet Tracer.
    Note: Ensure the router’s CLI is in the correct mode (global config mode) for direct pasting.

Step 7: Save the Configuration

    Once the configuration has been copied to the router, save it to the router's memory:

write memory

or

    copy running-config startup-config

Step 8: Verify the Configuration

    Check the router’s configuration to ensure it was applied correctly:

show running-config
